### Constructor
A constructor is a special member function of a class that is used to initialize objects of that class. It has the same name as the class and does not have any return type, including void.

Constructors are called automatically when an object is created, and they can be used to set initial values for data members or perform any necessary setup tasks.

example:

```cpp
class MyClass {
private:
    int x;
public:
    // Default constructor
    MyClass() {
        x = 0;  // Setting default value for x
    }

    // Parameterized constructor
    MyClass(int num) {
        x = num;  // Initializing x with the provided value
    }
};

int main() {
   MyClass obj1;           // Using default constructor

   MyClass obj2(5);        // Using parameterized constructor

   return 0;
}
```

 `MyClass` has two constructors: a default constructor (with no arguments) and a parameterized constructor (with one argument). The default constructor initializes `x` with the value 0 by default. The parameterized constructor takes an integer argument and initializes `x` with that value.

When creating objects of `MyClass`, we can use either the default or parameterized constructors based on our needs.

Notes: 
-   If you don't define any constructors in your class, C++ will provide a default one implicitly.
- Once you define at least one custom constructor, the compiler will not generate the implicit/default version anymore unless explicitly defined.

#### Type of Constructors
There are several types of constructors that can be defined within a class. These include:

1. `Default` Constructor: A constructor with no arguments is called the default constructor. It is automatically generated by the compiler if no other constructors are explicitly defined in the class.

2. `Parameterized` Constructor: A constructor that takes one or more parameters is called a parameterized constructor. It allows you to initialize objects with specific values at the time of creation.

3. `Copy` Constructor: A copy constructor creates a new object as an exact copy of an existing object, passed as a reference parameter. It is used when objects need to be initialized or copied from existing objects.

4. `Move` Constructor (C++11 onwards): The move constructor transfers ownership and resources from one object to another efficiently, typically using rvalue references and move semantics.

5. `Conversion` Constructor: This type of constructor converts data from one type to another implicitly using a single argument (other than `this`).

6. `Explicit` Constructor (C++11 onwards): By default, constructors can also act as implicit conversion functions for their corresponding classes during initialization or assignment operations.
   However, if marked explicit, they cannot perform any implicit conversions and require explicit use when creating objects or performing assignments.


---

[Next](https://github.com/Lavin-tom/cpp_programming/tree/master/Constructor/constructor_overloading)
